---
title: "Symbolic verification of message passing interface programs"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-10-01-mpisv
excerpt: 'Verify mpi programs var symbolic execution.'
date: 2020-10-01
venue: 'ICSE 2020'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/icse-2020-preprint.pdf'
citation: 'Hengbiao Yu, Zhenbang Chen, Xianjin Fu, Ji Wang, Zhendong Su, Jun Sun, Chun Huang, and Wei Dong. 2020. Symbolic verification of message passing interface programs. In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1248–1260.<br> '
---
Message passing is the standard paradigm of programming in high-performance computing. However, verifying Message Passing Interface (MPI) programs is challenging, due to the complex program features (such as non-determinism and non-blocking operations). In this work, we present MPI symbolic verifier (MPI-SV), the first symbolic execution based tool for automatically verifying MPI programs with non-blocking operations. MPI-SV combines symbolic execution and model checking in a synergistic way to tackle the challenges in MPI program verification. The synergy improves the scalability and enlarges the scope of verifiable properties. We have implemented MPI-SV1 and evaluated it with 111 real-world MPI verification tasks. The pure symbolic execution-based technique successfully verifies 61 out of the 111 tasks (55%) within one hour, while in comparison, MPI-SV verifies 100 tasks (90%). On average, compared with pure symbolic execution, MPI-SV achieves 19x speedups on verifying the satisfaction of the critical property and 5x speedups on finding violations.

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/icse-2020-preprint.pdf)

Recommended citation: Hengbiao Yu, Zhenbang Chen, Xianjin Fu, Ji Wang, Zhendong Su, Jun Sun, Chun Huang, and Wei Dong. 2020. Symbolic verification of message passing interface programs. In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE \'20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1248–1260.